---
slug: welcome
title: In RestQA we believe !
author: Olivier R.
author_title: CEO @ Atalent Consulting
author_url: https://github.com/olivierodo
author_image_url: https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/4768226?s=400&v=4
tags: [restqa, hello, story]
---

Hello Everyone,
We are finally getting there, after :

* A few years of thinking
* A few months of building
* A few weeks of stress

I'm really proud of this new product : RestQA!

<!--truncate-->

## What is RestQA ?

RestQA is a simple Open Source API Automation testing ecosystem, allowing anyone to get a API test automation pipeline ready in less than 1 minute!
Starting from the test suite until the setup of continuous integration, you will be able to get your API test with automation without the support of any developer or devops.

## Why RestQA ?

As a consultant, to keep each mission exciting I'm challenging myself to get a daily release cycle. In order to be able to release every day, there are 2 main pillars: Devops Automation and Testing Automation.
DevOps Automation is more of a human challenge because it is more of a mindset than a position. Challenge will be there from one mission to another as we work with different set of people. Testing Automation have the same pain point and steps everytime:

1. Share the vision of full speed test automation.
2. Reassure the local QAs and let them feel that it's gonna be cool.
3. Build the engine with the Dev Team.
4. Setup the pipeline with the devops.
5. Get the team into team learning curve.

Only 5 steps but the reality is that... On some mature teams it can take weeks, but most of the time takes months ... and months...

> An any automation lover would understand that "Automating the pain is the best thing on earth".

On that process I start looking for any project or product that can do the job. But I realized that in fact there is not a lot of choices out there :

* Saas Product (assertible, rainforst QA, etc..)
* Community tools (postman, soapUI, RestAssured, various open source projects)

### Saas Products

#### Pros

* Advance feature for a lot of different us cases
* Automation pipeline managed by the product
* Integrates to a lot of different tools
* Reliable
* Good documentation
* Support

#### Cons

* Price
* Learning curve for the local team
* Proprietary: we don't own the software or the Test scenario...
* Strong lock in: If you want to stop your subscription, your product won't have test anymore

### Community Tools 

#### Pros

* Free
* Driven by the community
* A lot of flavor
* Good documentation
* Low learning curve for the local team
* Reliable
* No lock in : You own your tests

#### Cons

* No Support
* No framework for the team to follow
* Team needs to build the entire automation pipeline 


This is why I decided to build RestQA because I couldn't find any tool that would give me the entire ownership of my test scenario and the Automation pipeline required to boostrap faster.

##  Open Source First !

It's all about knowledge sharing, the vision is to build quality API around the world.
However, it was a natural choice to open the source of RestQA and since it is based on Cucumber a popular open source project. What I try to build is just a way to help anyone to boostrap their API test automation on a modular on a efficient way.
It might not be perfect but I'm sure a few people will support on fixing the missing pieces.

## RestQA Learning Curve

In fact RestQA is easy to use, 2 file in your repository and it runs!
However the key challenge will remain on the Test Scenario creation. This depends on the knowledge of the QA or the developer and learning phase might be different.

## Key differienciator

RestQA is Open. If you are coming from an engineering background you can install it manually in your project and get automation, monitoring or alerting within a few minutes. Or if your not an engineer freak you can just connect to  [get.restqa.io](https://get.restqa.io), where the user can manage everything from a nice user interface.

## Premium feature

Actually using RestQa is TOTALLY FREE.  It gives user unlimited run, unlimited installation and use it as you want.
As premium feature we are simply proposing different kind of support :

* Setup support : Anything related to the RestQA tool.
* Test Scenario Contribution : You might require some support to accelerate, share your requirements and we automate the tests for you.
* Product behavior analysis: We have different Artificial Intelligence model that could analyze the result of your test and give your recommendation on different areas such as security, consistency, coverage and etc.



I hope those few words helps you to understand more about from where RestQA is coming from and what it is aiming for.

Feel free to take a look at our website : [restqa.io](https://restqa.io)
